In this video we're talking about how to find the least common multiple of a set of numbers and the
least common multiple is just the smallest value that two numbers will go into.
So to take a really easy example if we have two numbers two and three and we want to find the least
common multiple We have to figure out what's the smallest number that 2 and 3 both divide into.
So if we think about that per second we can probably come up with the fact the least common multiple
of these two numbers is six because three goes into six two times and two goes into six three times.
And there's no value smaller than 6 that 2 and 3 both divide into evenly.
Now in this particular example two times three gives us six but you can't find the least common multiple
Just by multiplying all of your values together.
If you multiply all the values together you'll certainly get a multiple but you won't necessarily get
the least common multiple.
An example of this would be if I had the three numbers for 5 and 10 and I wanted to find the least common
multiple.
If I just multiply all three of them together four times five gives me 20 20 times 10 it gives me 200.
And so if I say that the least common multiple is 200 I'm actually wrong because 20 is the least common
multiple.
And the reason is because four times five gives me 20 and 10 also happens to go into 20 evenly goes
in 22 times.
So 20 is the least common multiple of these three numbers not just the product of these three.
So if I can't just multiply my numbers together how am I supposed to find that he's come multiple.
Well the way that we do it is by reducing all of our numbers to their prime factors.
And once we've reduced them to their prime factors then we can pull out the values that we'll have to
multiply together to get the least common multiple of the original numbers.
So for example in this set I have 30 75 and 80 and I want to find the least common multiple of these
three numbers.
So I want to reduce each of them to their prime factor so with 30 I can start with 30 is the product
of three and 10 and 10 is the product of 2 and 5 2 3 and 5 here are all prime numbers.
So I've reduced 30 to it's prime factors now for 75.
I can say three times 25 for 25.
I can say five times 5 3 5 5 are all prime numbers.
So I know that overdue 75 to it's prime factors for 80 here will do eight times ten.
Eight is going to be two and four and four is going to be two and two ten is going to be two and five.
These are all prime numbers here.
So I'm down to the bottom.
Now I want to pull these together so here for 30 I have two three and five.
So I have two of the first three to the first and five to the first power for seventy five.
I have three to the first but I have five squared because I have two factors of five.
So three times five squared.
And then here for me I have two to the fourth because I have one two three four factors of two.
So two to the fourth power times five.
Now at this point I want to look for the greatest value of each of these factors.
So I have factors of two three and five for two.
I have two of the first power and I have two to the fourth power.
I have to take the greatest value of the factor of two so I have to take two to the fourth.
So two to the fourth there.
Now I want to look my factors of three of three to the first power here and three to the first power
here so I take three to the first.
So three for five.
I have five five squared and five.
I have to take five square because that's my greatest value.
So five squared.
Now at this point the product of these three is going to be my least common multiple of 30 75 and 80.
So I just need to multiply out here to get my final answer to to the fourth is going to be 16.
Because remember it's two times two times two times two which I know is 16.
Multiply that by three and then five squared we know is twenty five.
Sixteen times three gives me forty eight.
So I get 48 times 25 when I multiply 48 by 25.
I get twelve hundred.
So 1200 is my least common multiple of 30.
75 and 80 30 75 and 80.
All divide evenly into twelve hundred and twelve hundred is the smallest value for which that's the
case for which 30 75 and 80 all go in evenly.
So now let's look at another example where we have 15 A-squared B and 10 a B cubed.
When we have variables like this they're already reduced as far as they can be so A-squared B and AB
cubed are all going to remain just as they are.
But we need to reduce the 15 and then 10 into their prime factors.
So 15 is going to give us three and five both prime and 10 is going to give us two and five both prime.
So now here for 15 A-squared B we have three times five times a squared times.
B These are our prime factors essentially.
And then for ten a B cubed we have 2 times five times a times b cubed and I remember now we want to
take the largest value of each of our factors so we have here this to the first.
There's no other 2.
So we have to take that too.
This is the only three here it's three of the first powers so we have to take the three.
We have five of the first and five to the first in both.
So we have to take five to the first and then we have A-squared an A because A-squared is greater we
have to take A-squared instead of a.
So a squared.
And we have B and B cube so because B cubed is greater we have to take the B cubed instead of just the
B.
So then multiplying all of these together two times three gives us six six times five gives us 30.
So we have 30 and then just a squared B cubed.
So 30 A-squared be cute is the least common multiple of our two original values 15 a squared B and 10
a B cubed.
Both of these values will divide evenly into 30 A-squared be cubed.